## Sports Debatable: Your Go-To Sports Debate App
Sports debatable is an app for passionate sports fans to talk and debate on sports topics. App users are able to challenge sports fans of all ages, across the nation and around the world, with their own topics, or respond to other users' topics. The debate topics cover sports news, sports history, controversial sports issues and other big debates in sports.

Sports Debatable has similarities to SportCred in that both apps solve the problem of providing a platform for sports fans to debate on sports topics. However a huge difference in the apps, is that sportCred accumulates points in the form of ACS (analytical credibility scores) based on a users debate and analytical efficiency. While, Sports Debatable has no credibility scoring system. Also, SportCred is different as it has additional features that allows app users to further exercise their sports knowledge. These additional features include, sports trivia, picks & predictions and an interactive open court for users to post and communicate with each other.

Our product is specifically better for sports fans who have vast sports knowledge and analytical credibility, the same as professional sports analysts. These specific users end up attaining an “expert Analyst” ACS score, which is between the range of 900-1100. App users who attain the expert analyst score are given opportunities to go on to predict and analyse various sports professionally. This opportunity is a differentiating factor as it gives elite fan analysts extra incentives to participate/engage more on the platform.

In our opinion, Sports Debatable didn’t focus on these users because the concept of generating an ACS score based on a users qualitative analysis is quite complex and unique. So instead of generating ACS scores they implemented the app just for fun, with no point system. In order for sports debatable to implement this ACS concept they would need to come up with their own algorithm and point system to accumulate a users analytical credibility score. This would involve them totally revamping their product, by adding extra additional features to allow them get a more accurate ACS score. Quite simply this is not easy to do, and can be quite complex to execute - which is why our SportCred product is better than sport debatable.

__URL__: [Sports Debatable](https://www.sportsdebatable.com/)


## Prediction Guru
Prediction Guru is an app that provides a platform where sports fans can predict the results of matches, follow other users, chat, join groups, follow sports news, and compete on the leaderboard. When users have an account on the app, they receive 500 virtual coins to perform several actions, including joining groups and predicting match results. Users bet virtual coins on their predictions and receive an accuracy percentage based on their performance in the app.

Both Prediction Guru and SportCred have the goal of delivering a platform where sports fans can place their predictions and gain credit for their performance. However, SportCred has the upper hand when it comes to implementing that goal. On SportCred, users are privileged with a better credibility scoring system, ACS (analytical credibility score). ACS is a more accurate system because it has the following breakdown: 50% on picks and predictions, 10% each on trivia and participation, and 30% on analysis and debate. Furthermore, ACS is tier based (Fanalyst, Analyst, Pro Analyst, Expert Analyst), which makes it more realistic. Thus, SportCred is able to provide users with a fair and accurate estimate of their analytical skills. On the other hand, Prediction Guru’s credibility scoring system is mainly based on the amount of virtual coins, which depends on the outcomes of staking virtual coins on match predictions. They were probably trying to combine the assessment of betting skills and analytical skills into one test. However, the amount of coins a user has does not reflect their analytical abilities as much as their betting abilities. For example, someone could have the analytical ability to predict correctly, but does not know how to manage the money they have on bets to gain more than other people on the table, regardless of their analytical ability. Furthermore, if a user loses all of their virtual coins, they are forced to wait to claim daily coins, borrow from other users, or buy coins with real money, which is not convenient for all users and may lead some people to quitting the app. The second way Prediction Guru uses for the scoring system is a user’s accuracy percentage, which is also faulty, since this system only takes the number of matches that a user predicted correctly and divides it by the total number of their predictions. This means if a user predicted only one match and their prediction turned out to be true, that user would have a 100% accuracy, which clearly shows that this method is not suitable for comparing different users’ abilities.

In terms of UI, SportCred is more user friendly than Prediction Guru because our product provides a step by step pop up guide that explains how the app works. Prediction Guru only has a quick tour guide menu that merely explains some features in the app and assumes all users will know how to navigate the app on their own. Some users, such as senior sports fans, are highly likely to find Prediction Guru complex to use. On the other hand, these users won’t face troubles using SportCred thanks to the informative guide we provide.
For Prediction Guru to improve their credibility scoring system, they will have to renovate their whole app to include features that test a user’s analytical ability and this task requires a sophisticated algorithm, and therefore lots of time. Also, they would need to either remove the betting system or find a reasonable method for it to coexist with their scoring system. One suggestion is to have two leaderboards, one based on the amount of coins and the other based on the analytical skills. Finally they need to provide more guidelines to enhance their UI accessibility. In light of the above, SportCred wins Prediction Guru in many vital points, including the credibility scoring system and UI accessibility.

__URL__: [Prediction Guru](https://www.prediction.guru)